the last thing I want to say about
exceptions is to point out a little
issue you're likely to run into at some
point when using real library code so
occasionally you'll write some innocent
little method like this I have a main
method that called the goal gate method
of some eagle class but when I try and
compile it it yells at me and it says
must be caught or declared to be thrown
some kind of unreported exception so
what we're gonna do in the next few
minutes is pick apart what's happening
here exactly it just seems strange here
then I'm just trying to compile my code
Matt saying something about unreported
exceptions so the basic idea that
underlies all what we're about to talk
about is that some errors some some
exceptions rather are considered so
disgusting by the compiler you have to
handle them in some way and there's a
specific thing known as the catch or
specify requirement that we're gonna
describe in a moment so these special
exceptions the ones the compiler really
hates are considered or are called
checked exceptions I think a better name
for them would be must be checked
exceptions for reasons that will become
clear soon but well we'll get there in a
moment so all of our examples so far
have been so-called unchecked exceptions
however as we just saw it seems like
there's something else there's also
these things known as checked exceptions
and these we're the compiler
requires that they be caught or
specified and I'll say what specified as
in a moment and the basic philosophy
behind this is that the Java compiler
wants to prevent any situation where
there's an avoidable crash that could
have been handled and it will
philosophize at the end of this little
section about what exactly that means
so let's actually consider here a piece
of code that we write everything
ourselves right so here we were relying
on some external library who knows
what's happening in this example I'm
making a class called Eagle which has a
goal gate method if today is Thursday it
throws a new i/o exception which is just
something I dug out of the libraries so
if I try and compile it egle as it's
written right here a funny thing happens
we get unreported the exception piyo
exception must be caught or declared to
be thrown even compilation fails now
contrast that with this alternate
situation in unchecked exception demo in
this case it's almost the exact same
idea right if today's Thursday now we'll
throw a new runtime
option this code if I try to compile it
it's perfectly fine does not matter and
if I try and run it with a little crash
of course if it happens to be Thursday
and say ha ha got you is weird Joe you
know who knows how programs how their
sense of humor works so this program
right here the only difference between
them the only meaningful difference is
that this has a runtime exception and
this has an IO exception so what's
happening what's special about this why
why does it compiler allow one and not
the other it's actually a pretty simple
rule anything here in blue that is Error
runtime exception or any of their
subtypes they're all throwables these
are considered unchecked in other words
they don't need to be checked if your
code throws them the compiler will say
that's fine but if at any point there's
any possibility of any of these red
classes these are all the checked
examples if any of those are have any
possibility whatsoever of occurring you
must either catch or specify those
exceptions otherwise the compiler will
not allow that code to be compiled so
let's see a little compare and contrast
here with our unchecked exception demo
because runtime exception is on the blue
side does not care
Java says that's fine you know I know
it's a little weird for you to be doing
it but I'm gonna allow it but over here
because there's the possibility of a red
exception then the compiler will yell at
you and say why didn't you catch or
specify you know that's in the rules ok
well maybe you did it but now you're
learning so let's see what that means
again how can we actually handle one of
these red exceptions what is it that we
need to do well the first thing we can
do is do is use a catch statement as we
saw before and in this case in my ego
class in goal gate I could say if today
it goes Thursday throw a new exception
and then I can have a catch block here
so that if it happens to be Thursday
that exception is captured and it can't
escape so if we look at this code the
compiler says is there any chance that's
an exception that I absolutely hate
that's over here is there any chance it
could get out no it couldn't get out
because there's a catch here and so in
this case the compiler allows we have
caught this checked exception
now I'll mention just briefly because I
ought to that because in IO exception
is an exception it's a subtype of
exception right so notice I exception
exception this catch will actually catch
IO exception however if I did something
like MIDI unavailable exception it would
not work because this catch block does
not actually capture i/o exceptions
they're cousins they're not parent this
is not a parent of AI exception and so
if we tried to compile the code like
this it wouldn't work just as an aside
now the alternate possibility other than
catching is to do something known as
specifying so what is specifying well to
do that we simply take our method and we
mark it with an extra new keyword we've
never used before called throws and this
means I might maybe by the way throw an
IO exception so it's a declaration to
the world that goal gate has the
property that it might throw IO
exception
it doesn't always just has to be
Thursday but it may and so that way we
know so if we try to compile eagle with
this method signature as opposed to this
method signature it will work perfectly
fine even without a catch
so no catch you just put throws IO
exception it'll compile just fine so
basically the philosophy there actually
is that we're deferring to someone else
we're warning the world that I'm a
method that's dangerous when you go gate
there might be an IO exception and you
need to handle it so here's an
interesting note which is that if a
method uses a dangerous method that is
if it uses a method that might throw a
checked exception it becomes dangerous
itself so if we look at a goal gate here
when we say a throw new IO exception if
in the main method we call eagle duck
goal gate this is why when we tried to
compile our code we get unreported
exception IO exception must be caught or
declared to be thrown because this
method right here throws IO exception
main also obviously since this can throw
an exception so can main and so in this
case we are not can't handling it
there's an old Nietzsche quote which I
think summarizes it nicely he who fights
with monster should look to it that he
himself does not become a monster and
when you gaze long into an abyss the
abyss also gazes into you so how do we
handle this how do we deal with the fact
that eagle gull gate might throw an
ioexception well we have a rule for that
we can either catch
or specify so here's my code up top one
possibility is in Maine we can catch it
we can try to goal gate in this case
I've imported the method from Eagle
already so it's not actually saying
Eagle not going sorry
and then we catch that exception and in
that case we've averted the crisis this
will compile just fine and in this case
we're keeping the exception from getting
out we're containing all that abyssal
energy and you can do this as long as
you can handle the problem so in this
case we handled the problem by just
saying no problem at all
but sometimes you actually want to do
something like maybe extend the antenna
or whatever it is the alternate
possibility is to make Maine itself to
declare that Maine is dangerous so Maine
might throw i/o exception in that case
this will also work the difference is
that on the left hand side you provide
the remedy and on the right hand side
someone else has to provide the remedy
so here you specify that you're
dangerous and someone else in this case
should handle it
so the last thing I want to say about
exceptions then we'll move on to other
things is that the reason that Java does
this right so we got you might ask the
question why does job and not require
that every exception be caught
maybe ponder that for a moment but the
answer is simply that these are
exceptions you can't predict in advance
and if they do happen what are you gonna
do about it like if you get index out of
bounds exception it's likely there's
nothing you can do but by contrast and a
file is not found you can maybe ask the
user to go get you the file or something
and so what's interesting about these
exceptions these are things for which a
remedy conceivably exists that's why
Java requires you to handle them if
possible remember that Java is largely
about making sure that you don't shoot
yourself in the foot and so here
basically if we look at and in this this
is the API of a class called file writer
we can see that each of the methods
there's actually part of the declaration
it's warning you that if you create a
file writer it might throw an i/o
exception
so that means that you if you're using a
file writer you need to keep that in
mind so that way if you try to write to
a file and you find oops
writing to the file didn't work then you
can do something whatever it is that you
think is necessary that's it for
exceptions and so we'll move on to a new
topic
there's more to know about exceptions
and that but that's the most important
stuff we need to know for 61b